---
layout: post
title: "What's New in Release 0.2.0"
categories: blog
author: Stephen Kinder
author_picture: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/50876789
author_github: https://github.com/stephenkinder
additional_authors: 
 - name: Nate Ziemann
   github: https://github.com/nateziemann
   image: https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/28736793?s=400&v=4
seo-title: What is new in release 0.2.0
seo-description: See what is hot in Kabanero v0.2.0. New features include more customization for enterprise, managing microservice composed applications, and Guides.
blog_description: "See what is hot in Kabanero v0.2.0. New features include more customization for enterprise, managing microservice composed applications, and Guides."
---

Today you can get your hands on the next monthly release of Kabanero, v0.2.0.  We're working towards delivering on a monthly cadence so stay tuned to what November and December bring as well.  We’ve been busy making a ton of improvements including new features, enhancements, and good old fashion bug fixes.  One focus area for this release is enhancements for the Architect persona to better support customizations for the enterprise.  A new feature we’d like to mention is a Kubernetes Application Navigator that assists with managing microservice composed applications, which aligns with how the Kubernetes SIG-apps describe applications.  Check out all the details on everything new below:  

## Collection CLI
The Collection CLI has been introduced with fine-grained control over collections and synchronizing collection updates.  With the Collection CLI, you can view the status of collections, temporarily deactivate a collection as well as synchronize curated-collection updates. This feature also assists the enterprise manage collections in a Collection Hub by leveraging team permissions in GitHub to authenticate and authorize for a specific Kabanero instances deployed in a Kubernetes cluster.

## Collections 0.2.0
Use the features in Kabanero collections to develop microservices and applications for the enterprise. These collections include enhancements for security, performance, and bug fixes.

* java-microprofile
* java-spring-boot2
* node-js-express
* node-js-loopback
* node-js

Collections are built from https://developers.redhat.com/products/rhel/ubi/[Universal Base Images] and updated to stay current with performance improvements and security currency.  This ensures when applications created with Collections are deployed on OKD or OpenShift the entire stack is supportable with operating system libraries in each container. 

Kabanero now provides an integration point in the OKD management console, making it easy for developers to find which collections are available to them along with a Tekton dashboard to see the pipelines ready for the collections.

image::/img/blog/Kabanero020.png[link="/img/blog/Kabanero020.png" alt="Kabanero 0.2.0"]

## Guides
Guides are now available on the Kabanero website to help you to learn more about Kabanero. Guides provide step-by-step instructions with a real use case in mind to help you get started quickly. See https://kabanero.io/guides/[Kabanero Guides]


## Manage microservice composed applications
Kabanero now integrates a new open source project called https://kappnav.io/[kAppNav] which is a Kubernetes Application Navigator that assists with managing microservice composed applications. This provides display, inspection, understanding, and navigation of the deployed resources that comprise an application. This is installed through a Kubernetes operator and included in the user experience.

The https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/application/blob/master/config/crds/app_v1beta1_application.yaml[Application Custom Resource Definition (CRD)] from the https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/application[Kubernetes Application SIG] is used as the basis for describing applications.

## Support scripts
The Kabanero support scripts include a sample script that uninstalls Kabanero and must-gather scripts that collect important diagnostic data.

## Kabanero operator, enhanced
The Kabanero operator now includes a –targetNameSpaces configuration that defines a list of namespaces that help to manage Appsody application deployments with Kabanero using a controlled set of namespaces defined by the architect and operations roles. To simplify collection development, variable substitution is introduced to allow the same pipeline template to be used for multiple collections. This allows you to use one pipeline for multiple collections.

As always you can, https://kabanero.io/try-it/[try it out]!
